---
layout: post
title:  "Mining Coins with Idle cloud resources"
---
Lately I've been interested to learn and understand more about
cryptocurrency technologies and given my background as a cloud
engineer I though that the idea to combine both technologies (Cloud
computing and Cryptocurrency) could be worthy to share it.

First of all, let's analyze what has been accomplished in Cloud
Computing. Mainly it has helped to optimize the usage of
infrastructure resources, through virtualization technologies and
informed decision making algorithms which help to allocate resources
of a physical infrastructure in a wisdom manner. In the
implementation of a private cloud, the way to determine future
workloads is complex and depends on multiple factors, this results in
the creation of a pool of available resources to satisfy these
unpredictable demands. This potential capacity represents a cost for
whoever is responsible for the infrastructure and business owners
have to consider it on their budget given that these resources will
remain idle until are used by someone.

Multiple efforts have been developed to tackle these costs, most of
them can be summarized in the following categories:

 - **Reduction of the energy consumption**. These techniques offer
the creation of algorithms for balancing workloads of a cloud
computing implementation offering the alternative to shut down those
unused resources. At server level, it’s possible to control the
number of operative CPUs and/or cores of the server reducing the
power consumption.
 - **Improve resource planning**. Their goal is to optimize the
number of resources required for the business through the monitoring
of current and/or past workloads as source of prediction techniques.

Combining both techniques can result in a better resource utilization
given that it’s possible to reduce the size of the pool to the
minimum required and control its energy consumption to nothing or
almost nothing. But even in that case, the need for a pool of
resources is still mandatory and these resources will require
physical space in the data center.

So what about taking advantage of the incentive offered for mining
cryptocurrencies and use the cloud idle resources to perform these
tasks, maybe the operational expenditure (OPEX) can be compensated
with the revenue generated for these processes, processes executed in
resources that have been already paid and placed in the Data center.
