---
layout: post
title:  "On-Prem Cloud Incentives"
---

I'm in favor of any practice that allows me to improve my
productivity. This principle has been driven me to get immerse in the
Cloud Technologies, which in my humble opinion one of its major
success has being the delegation of the overhead of maintaining
hardware and software in favor of operating expenses (OPEX) reduction.

As the demand of compute resource grows the pay-as-you-go business
model becomes more attractive for Cloud Providers. Therefore, they are
constantly looking for ways to improve the resource usage to maximize
their profits. They develop tools which allow their users to manage
geographically distributed resources(multi-region) and/or take
advantage of the services offered by different vendors(multi-cloud).

Google has recently announced [Anthos]( https://cloud.google.com/anthos/)
as a solution to manage public and/or private resources from a single
control plane. So, is this the right way to go? do we need to register
ALL our devices in their cloud? (really scary) Is there another
alternative?

I personally like the incentive programs that some governments have
for renewable energy. It’s a way to deal with a high demand that
sometimes exceeds their current and near future plans on growing its
infrastructure. This model delegates the responsibility of planning,
installing and maintaining equipment to their own customers which
sometimes they expect a return of their investment.

Why don’t use the same business model for Cloud Computing? I mean,
customers could allocate third party resources in their own premises
and receive some incentives based on that workload. This sharing
concept isn't new in Distributed computing so why don't use it for
Cloud computing. I know the extra security implications but an extra
money for using your existing hardware doesn’t hurt right?
